# Monte-Carlo-using-C-and-MPI

Objective:
The objective of this lab is to implement Monte Carlo Integration using MPI. In this lab,
we will create code that will intake the upper and lower bounds(a and b) of the integral and
N(the amount of samples from the user. With that information, the program will then find where
the equation will converge. The program will then also calculate the time it takes to run to help
determine speed up when varying the number of processors that it can run on.
Assumptions:
The equation f(x) is hardcoded into the program.

F(x) =(1/√2*π) * e^−(n^2/2 ) 

The inputs for upper and lower bounds as well as N are integers


Steps:
1. The master process, taskid =0, will find the value input the upper(b) and lower(a) bounds
of the integral and the number of samples(N) by asking the user for them.
2. Read in those 3 values in from the master process.
3. With the number of workers, divide the number of samples by the number of workers to
find the amount of times each worker needs to run. For example if there are 2 workers
and the user wants to take 10 samples(N), then each worker will do the calculation 5
times to total to 10 to maximize the time and do the least amount of work to get the task
done.
a. For remainders, if N % numworkers is not 0, some of the worker processes will
have to run more than just the division. The remainder will be a whole number
and that will also be sent to the worker processes.
4. Then after doing that calculation send the 4 variables, a, b, N, and the amount of times
each worker runs, to the worker processes.
5. In the worker class, where taskid > 0, the processes will read in the values sent from the
master process.
6. While in the worker process, each worker will generate random numbers(the number
generated will be the number used to get a sample of data, which will be plugged into
the equation).
7. Then the worker process will take the random number is generated and plug it into the
equation below, where n is the random number: (* the equation above*)
8. The worker will then take the sum of the value calculated with inputting the random
number into the equation and adding that to the total sum of the worker. The total sum
for each worker will be all of the values calculated for each of the random numbers
generated by that worker process.
9. The sum of each worker program will then be sent back to the master program and all of
those sums will be totaled together for a final sum.
10. That final sum will then be multiplied by to find where the equation converges. N
(b − a)
11. That number will be printed at the end.
12. For speed up: run 10 times varying the processors, 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 100
